content/notes_on_technical_blog.rst, before:

Review of Techical Blogging
###########################

:tags: books, blogging, writing
:date: 2012-12-02
:category: books
:author: Jake Mick

**POST IN PROGRESS**

I follow a bunch of technical reading circles and blogs. I read so much
$LaTeX$ that I speak in $\\int$s. Sadly thought I haven't contributed much
besides some Q/A on StackExchange and some technical subreddits.

2013 will the year that this changes. So I downloaded a copy of
*Technical Blogging.* It has been a joy to read. The book is written in a style
similar to the documentation surrounding a programming framework.

The book starts off with a solid introduction establishing the purpose of blogging,
"Blogging isn't dead, it is a ... Here's how this book fits in..."

From the site:
    Technical Blogging is the first book to specifically teach programmers,
    technical people, and technically-oriented entrepreneurs how to become 
    successful bloggers. There is no magic to successful blogging; with this book 
    you’ll learn the techniques to attract and keep a large audience of loyal,
    regular readers and leverage this popularity to achieve your goals.

Now that that is out of the way, the rest of this post is aimed at being as
**meta-edgy** as I possible can, abusing reStructuredText_ and Pelican_ while
writing a review of *Technical Blogging* on a technical blog.


*Phew*. So let's get down to the d33ts.

The chapters that follow are self-contained units implicitly forcing you to answer questions
while concretizing the blog idea you have in mind. The author suggests writing down a plan of action
as you parse the book.

The chapters give you advice on WordPress then go on to
give Dos-and-Donts about SEO, content creation, post consistency, reading Analytics,
building a following, blog-growth and so on.

From the title I had expected a book focused on writing, but it is a small fraction
of the book. The author agrees that content is the most important aspect of a blog
but much of the book is devoted to all of the things surrounding a blog.

The book is imbues a fascinating mindset to approach blogging. I hadn't expected
to come across a section on pay-scale for bloggers or job boards. It's like I'm
reading something I shouldn't be allowed to see.

*Techical Blogging: Turn Your Expertise into a Remarkable Online Presence
by Antonio Cangiano* is offered by The Pragmatic Bookshelf at PragProg_.

(BTW, reStructuredText looks sweet in Vim.)

.. image:: screenshot.png
   :align: right

-- JakeMick

.. _PragProg: http://pragprog.com/book/actb/technical-blogging/
.. _reStructuredText: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html
.. _Pelican: http://docs.getpelican.com/en/3.0/

Commit message:

probably good, need to check the site

content/notes_on_technical_blog.rst, after:

Great Book on Blogging: Techical Blogging
#########################################

:tags: books, blogging, writing
:date: 2012-12-02
:category: books
:author: Jake Mick

I follow a bunch of technical reading circles and blogs. I read so much
$LaTeX$ that I speak in $\\int$s. Sadly though, I haven't contributed much
besides some Q/A on StackExchange and technical subreddits.

2013 will the year that this changes. So I downloaded a copy of
*Technical Blogging.* It has been a joy to read. The book is written in a style
similar to the documentation surrounding a programming framework, which is really
no surprise given what the publisher had to say:
    Technical Blogging is the first book to specifically teach programmers,
    technical people, and technically-oriented entrepreneurs how to become 
    successful bloggers. There is no magic to successful blogging; with this book 
    you’ll learn the techniques to attract and keep a large audience of loyal,
    regular readers and leverage this popularity to achieve your goals.

Now that that is out of the way, the rest of this post is aimed at being as
**meta-edgy** as I possible can, abusing reStructuredText_ and Pelican_ while
writing a review of *Technical Blogging* on a technical blog.


*Phew*. So let's get down to the d33ts.

The book starts off with a solid introduction establishing the purpose of blogging,
"Blogging isn't dead, it is a ... Here's how this book fits in ..."

The chapters that follow are self-contained units that encourage you to answer questions
about the blog idea you have in mind. The author suggests writing down a plan of action
as you parse the book.

The chapters give you advice on WordPress then go on to give Dos-and-Donts
about SEO, content creation, post consistency, reading Analytics, building a
following, blog-growth and so on.

From the title I had expected a book focused on writing, but it is a small fraction
of the book. The author agrees that content is the most important aspect of a blog
but much of the book is devoted to all of the things surrounding a blog.

The book is imbues a fascinating mindset to approach blogging. I hadn't expected
to come across a section on pay-scale for bloggers or job boards. It's like I'm
reading something I shouldn't be allowed to see.

*Techical Blogging: Turn Your Expertise into a Remarkable Online Presence
by Antonio Cangiano* is offered by The Pragmatic Bookshelf at PragProg_. I
would definitely recommend the book to anyone interested in blogging.

(BTW, reStructuredText looks sweet in Vim.)

.. image:: screenshot.png
   :align: right

-- JakeMick

.. _PragProg: http://pragprog.com/book/actb/technical-blogging/
.. _reStructuredText: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html
.. _Pelican: http://docs.getpelican.com/en/3.0/
